##Synopsis
This document is an explanation of how my tidy data class project script works.

##Code Objective
This code cleans the UCI HAR Dataset on smartphone activity tracking. The code first reads various text files into one single dataframe. Then, the dataframe is filtered to include only those columns that have mean and std values. Some data cleaning and renaming of columns occurs after this and finally a tidy data set is created with mean summary values for each column by subject and activity. The tidy dataset is then written back into the working directory.

##Code Explanation
I have divided the main body of the run_analysis.R script file into 6 blocks of code. First, before you start reading or playing with the code - please note that this code will work only on UCI HAR Dataset and folders. You will have to set the current working directory of R as *UCI HAR Dataset*. Also - you will have to ensure that you have installed the dplyr package since this code makes use of some functions from that package.

CODEBLOCK_1 Explanation: In the first block of code, we simply read the "test" data into the variables x, y and z. Then we rename the column name of variable x as subject and we rename the column name of z as activity (this is corresponding to the data that was assigned to these variables). Finally, we use the cbind function to combine the three variables and create a testdata dataframe.

CODEBLOCK_2 Explanation: In this block of code, we simply read the "train" data into the variables x, y and z. Then we rename the column name of variable x as subject and we rename the column name of z as activity (this is corresponding to the data that was assigned to these variables). We then use the cbind function to combine the three variables and create a traindata dataframe. Finally, we use rbind to combine the testdata and traindata frames into one single masterdata dataframe.

CODEBLOCK_3: This purpose of this block of code is to simply rename the column names of the 561 variables (of activity tracking) to more descriptive column names (in accordance tidy data principles). We use the descriptive names provided in the features text document in the UCI HAR Dataset. Since, we have two additional variables (i.e. subject and activity) - we manually assign those values in to the features variable. After this, we arrange by the order variable we created in this block. Once arranged, the 'features' variable is in the same order as the masterdata dataframe. So, we simply assign the values in V2 of features to the column names of masterdata in the last line of this code block.

CODEBLOCK_4: The first two lines of this block of code cleans up any invalid characters in the column names of the masterdata dataframe. We then select into masterdata_select dataframe only those columns that contain the words "mean" or "std" in the column names and we also include the columns subject and activity.

CODEBLOCK_5: We now replace the numerical values of activities with the corresponding actual activity names. The code lines here are straight forward.

CODEBLOCK_6: Finally, we now group the masterdata_select dataframe on subject and activity and then summarize the means of each column as required by this project. We then finally write this dataframe into tidydata_averages.txt file (which is written into the current working directory).

##Rationale behind Tidy Dataset
The text file that is generated by this code is a tidy dataset since it follows the key principles of tidy datasets as listed below:
1. Each variable we are measuring is in one and only one column.
2. Each different observation of each variable is in a different row.
3. Variables names are descriptive and not numerical or alphanumerical.
4. Finally, also included is a a Codebook that complements and explains all the variables and the dataset.

